Notes on how to program Kenwood TH-F6A on Linux
===============================================

Setup
-----
Install virtual box 4.3.36:

	sudo sh -c "echo 'deb http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/debian '$(lsb_release -cs)' contrib non-free' > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/virtualbox.list" && wget -q http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/debian/oracle_vbox.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add - && sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install virtualbox-4.3

Install guest additions (for usb stuff):

	GOTO http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/4.3.36/Oracle_VM_VirtualBox_Extension_Pack-4.3.36.vbox-extpack in browser
	Should be prompted to install

Install vagrant `Vagrant 1.4.3`

Startup windows vm:

	cd windows/ && vagrant up

Stop machine (will need to do some stuff on the host machine first)

Download USB to USART/COM driver (super hacky, w/e):

	wget https://www.silabs.com/Support%20Documents/Software/Linux_3.x.x_VCP_Driver_Source.zip
	unzip Linux_3.x.x_VCP_Driver_Source.zip

Follow ubunut driver instructions found in CP210x_VCP_Linux_3.13.x_Release_Notes.txt:

	make
	sudo cp cp210x.ko to /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/usb/serial
	lsmod | grep usbserial.ko
	# If the above command returns no results insert the usbserial module, else skip the next line
	insmod /lib/modules/<kernel-version/kernel/drivers/usb/serial/usbserial.ko
	sudo insmod cp210x.ko


Configure radio:
	Go to menu section "SP/MIC JACK"
		-> Select "PC"

Turn off radio. Connect radio via USB

Should see a new device at:
	
	uberj@machine:~/kenwood$ ls -l /dev/serial/by-id/usb-Prolific_Technology_Inc._USB-Serial_Controller-if00-port0 
	lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 13 Aug 23 19:36 /dev/serial/by-id/usb-Prolific_Technology_Inc._USB-Serial_Controller-if00-port0 -> ../../ttyUSB0

Back to virtualbox (VM should be shutdown)

	Configure COM device
		-> VM Settings
			-> Serial Ports
				-> Port 1
					Enable: (checked)
					Port Number: COM1  # Default
					IRQ: 4  # Default
					I/O Port: 0x3fb  # Default
					Port Mode: Host Device
					Create pipe: (unchecked)
					Port/File Path: /dev/ttyUSB0  # Path to device created by hacky driver

Start up VM (Make sure radio is still off)

Make sure com device looks right:

	Go to start and search "Device Manager"
	Under "Ports" you should see something like "Communications Port (COM1)". The "COM1" part is important.

In windows install Kenwood software:

	http://www.kenwood.com/i/products/info/amateur/image/MFX101.zip
	(Click until installed)

Run the software. Make sure the setting at `Radio -> Port Select` is aligned with what you saw in device manager.

Turn the radio on

Read in memory

File Format
-----------
Mostly scrapped from: https://osdir.com/ml/recreation.radio.hardware.kenwood.th-f6a/2004-11/msg00079.html

Format header:
	
	NR FREQ STEP 0/+/- REV PL/T PL/R DCS PL/T PL/R DCS OFFSET MODE L/O NAME

	NR This is the channel number. It must contain 3 digits – see leading zeros.
	Begin with 000, not 001.

	FREQ Frequency. Note the leading/trailing zeros. No decimal is used. Entry
	may have to contain the total of 11 digits.

	STEP Enter 0 for 5 KHz., 1 for 6.5 KHz., … 6 for 15 KHz., etc. on up.

	0/+/- 0=Simplex, 1=shift up, 2=shift down for repeater.

	REV Reverse input/output. 0=no, 1=yes.

	PL/T PL on Xmit only. 0=off, 1=on.

	PL/R PL (ctcss) on both Xmit and Rcv. 0=off, 1=on.

	DCS Digital squelch on Xmit and Rcv. 0=off, 1=on.

	PL/T See chart, p. 13 manual. What you enter in the data column is the tone’s

	NUMBER, not its actual frequency. The chart numbers them 01-42, BUT they are
	one off, since numbering in the data column begins with 00, not 01. The default
	is 08, which is tone 88.5 Hz. This column has no function unless PL is
	activated by a 1 in the PL/T column.

	PL/R Same instructions as above.

	DCS Digital squelch frequencies are also numbered (chart, p. 29), and you must
	enter the DCS number, NOT the actual DCS code. 000=DCS 023. Entry must have 3
	digits, see leading zeros.

	OFFSET This will normally be 000600000 (=600 KHz.) on 2 meters, 005000000 (5
			MHz.) on 70 cm. I have not had luck entering “odd splits” in this column. That
	is best done from within Kenwood’s program.

	MODE Modes are numbered. 0=FM, 1=WFM, 2=AM, 3=LSB, 4=USB, 5=CW.

	L/O Channel lock out. 0=no, 1=yes.

	NAME (four tabs precede channel name). Up to 8 alphanumeric characters for the
	channel label.
